I need tip on how to be better at time management as my current sophomore year in cs is triple workload in my freshman year and I struggled, my easy A class is no longer easy A bc I barely have time for it. Junior year is gonna be the worst bc one of the class required 40-60 hours a week for hw. Any tips is appreciated

Here is what worked for me:

Do a high level plan for the rest of your degree (meaning, decide what classes you will take in each semester). Try to evenly spread out CS major classes with general electives (one strategy that worked for me was 2 CS classes + 1 hard GE + 2 easy GEs). Of course you can tweak the plan as you go along but it really helps to have a complete picture to begin with.

Learn how to keep a calendar.

[2a] At the beginning of your semester, go through all your courses' syllabi and put all the deadlines and exam/quiz dates on your calendar.

[2b] Right after [2a], immediately schedule blocks of time to prepare for exams, work on projects, etc. Yes, I do mean schedule study time weeks ahead. Tip: integrate professor and TA office hours into this study/project schedule; it helps you maximize your chances to ask questions as you are working on things (e.g. if I have a project due on Wednesday, and the TAs have office hours Tuesday at 3pm, make my project time Tuesday 1:30pm-3:30pm or something like that)

[2c] If you work, do also put your work hours on your schedule

3) Develop techniques to keep you productive (e.g. Pomodoro technique). If you happen to have ADHD or something like that, then this 10x.

4) Do participate in (and, if necessary, start) study groups. This helps a lot when you get stuck and also gives you a semi-social outlet while still remaining productive.

5) Make sure to eat well, exercise and get enough sleep. You WILL be sleepier, less focused and have a harder time understanding concepts and overall not perform as well as those who do these things.

6) Another high-level piece of advice: don't do minors or take classes that are not necessary in order to graduate. This just adds stress to your life at a time where you should be focused.

7) The other piece of advice (as someone who does helps with recruiting): do not place too much weight on grades and GPAs. What will get you software industry jobs will be [i] relevant work experience (e.g. internships, co-ops, etc.) and [ii] relevant extracurricular activities (e.g. personal project portfolio on GitHub, undergraduate research experience, meaningful Open Source contributions, hackathons, etc.) The 3.0 grad with internships and a good project portfolio will get the job over the 4.0 nerd without them. So getting just Bs is fine.


First, a class is not going to require 40-60 hours a week. Second, delete all social media during the day

Some combination of: Take fewer classes, and don't worry too much about a life outside of school.


One key success strategy is to keep yourself from rat-holing on one assignment to the detriment of everything else. Start each day with a priority To-Do list, with estimated times associated with each task. Stick to your plan as much as possible throughout the day. Do plan rest/sleep/eat times, too, so that you don't reduce your performance for avoidable reasons. Of course, these times are the only real flex times you have, so expect to get more sleep once you're out of school. And retired, since most premier jobs will hit you with more demands/stress than you are feeling now.

What you're facing now is one of the key benefits that employers see in getting a solid college degree. Master this and your career with be amazing!

creating a routine, prioritizing, and planning ahead with my online calendar has been the only way i've been surviving so far. 

I would do hw during class and work on projects in the 30 min wait period between classes.

I'd also work on easier projects if I wanted to take a break from a harder project. At my uni, I had to take non-CS classes even by junior/senior year, so I'd work on those projects as a "break" from hard CS hw.

When things got too unmanageable, I'd talk to my professors for non-CS classes about extending project deadlines. At my school, CS profs weren't forgiving about deadlines, but humanities profs were more understanding. I had a few nicer profs who let me turn in a project late without penalty because they knew I had like 5 different deadlines in the same week.

Finally, accepting that I won't be able to give 100% for all classes. Lots of times, I'd settle for a B instead of grinding for the A. Sometimes, you can't give every single project the same priority/effort without burning out.

No class will require 40-60 hours a week. If it does, the problem is likely you, and not the coursework. Either you are a perfectionist, or are struggling and need help.

This is prob a hot take, but if you’re trying to get good grades to get an internship, stop worrying. Grades have literally nothing to do with your career prospects. You don’t have to get all As. There is realistically only so much time in a week, and if you spend all your time trying to get a 4.0, you’re probably not gonna have time to work on your resume, projects, applications, etc.