CS majors: how many hours per week do you generally dedicate to your studies outside of class?

Taking 15 hours of classes, I average 25-30 hours/week for studies. A professor told me for every hour spent in class you’ll have to spend roughly two hours studying to maintain a 4.0. I can absolutely attest to that.

I was studying 55-60 hours a week last year taking 17 credits. Got a 4.0 but it is definitely a lot of work.

2 hours outside of class for every hour in class is delusional for most people. I spend 2.5 hours in OS lecture per week. Projects probably take 10-20 hours over two weeks if nothing goes COMPLETELY wrong. And then there is the reading and associated office hour time to understand tricky parts - probably another 3-6 hours per week. And then like 4 hours per day for like 5 days running up to an exam to make sure all the details and edge cases are locked in. A's don't come cheap.

I used to dedicate all my time to it but now as a senior I'm burnt out. I just do the bare minimum now and pass with an A.

 study about ~ 15 hours a week outside of class purely for my two CS classes, and an extra 5 hours for my remaining two easy theatre/humanities class. However, I spend an additional ~ 50 - 55 hours per week coding, learning to code, working on open source projects, and making side projects.

Note that I have barely any social life and am incredibly awkward and have no part-time job, and I spend all my time outside of classes and meals in the computer lab in our computer science complex and only make friends with equally awkward and anti-social college kids. Programming is also literally my only hobby. I wouldn’t recommend going my route - have some fun in college.

Studying for classes: 10-20 hours per tech class, depending on where the work loads are peaking. probly 5-10 for non-tech classes. Plus TA'ing which is like 15 hours/wk.


Extracurricular studying: I try to do 5 ours per week when I'm in school. Shoot for something like 8-12 hours per day with varying degrees of focus when not in school.

Depends on the class

For calculus 2 I was putting in a fuck ton. That class is over now though

For physics I put in like 1-2 hours a week For discrete math I put in like 10 For CS I put in like 10 For government I put in 0 hours outside of class For rhetoric I put in way less than I need to.

My schedule is really good for the most part, but I need to put in more time for my rhetoric class

I am by no means a habitual person so maintaining a study schedule is difficult and near-impossible so generally I study in batches but this thread makes me question my ability. I easily spend about ~50 hours per assignment (~3 assignments per course, 4 courses per sem) and this includes researching, learning about different implementations for a given solution, and then my implementation. That's only assignments.. doesn't include lectures, tutors, workshops, quizzes, mid-terms, personal projects, etc. How are you guys finding time to do coursework + personal work + reading + hobbies + socialising.

This year has taken a toll on my mental health and I'm honestly starting to regret my decision to a degree where I am doing average at best compared to something like IT or networking where I excelled in prior and if I wasn't so close to graduating then I probably would have transferred. It's a two-sided coin though, as I love how much I've learned and cs in general, but the constant anxiety of due dates and grades and lack of motivation to start the 3rd assignment after getting 65% on assignment 2 when you could have gotten 90% but you had to cop -20% due to handing it in late.

I may be preaching to the choir here, but being a cs major is hard, a lot harder than I initially expected it to be when people told me it was "hard". Sure it's technical, difficult, frustrating, rewarding, you name it, but the hardest thing for me is trying to climb out of an ever-deepening hole where the surface is this weeks content.

Depends on the classes. Currently I'm doing 4 advanced courses (bad idea who would've guessed) and it's probably like 25-30 hours for homework a week. The way my classes are structured right now I learn a bunch in class and via homework so that removes most studying for me, maybe 10 hours a week? Got other higher priority things going on and you can't spell college without a couple of L's but I'd say I'm doing very well overall.

Probably 20 hours just for compilers alone

Like two to four. Probably gonna get Cs this semester.

I’m taking 12 hours now that I had to drop a class, but accounting in the fact of commuting everyday I will say I’m doing 15 hours (although commuting still accounts for more than that; 1.5 hours minimum everyday for those curious). I take what would be a regular 40 hour work week, subtract 15, and get 25. Which split up M-F gives me 5 hours of dedicated studying.

Of course exams require more time, and I’m active in a fraternity that takes away time some days. Nonetheless, I try and shoot for 5 hours everyday. This works for me, what works for you depends on your skills and studying habits/retention abilities.

To be honest, not that much. I came from a tough mathematics degree, then went into a CS Masters. After maths, everything in CS seemed a huge step-down in terms of difficulty, and I could understand the concepts pretty easily without studying outside of class. The only exception was Operating Systems, I ended up devoting most of a semester to that course alone.

I probably spend 15-20 hours a week outside of classes as a Senior. I have an internship so I get 20 hours of programming there a week while in school. I also have been slacking big time this year, I used to put in about 25-30 hours a week working on projects/studying.

I’m taking 16 credit hours this semester and study about 20 hours a week for said classes to maintain mostly As. Aside from studying for school, I study computer science on my own for roughly 40-50 hours per week.

12 hours of classes a week, probably like 10 hours of homework over the week. 

First year is pretty relaxed for me. 5 courses 4 labs and I spend about 3 hours a week on each class. I'm usually on campus for 7 hours 5 days a week. Not too hard. I heard second year is a pipe tho so gotta get settled in fast.

For one of my CS courses I spend maybe 30 min- 1 hour out of class most weeks; this course is largely theory based. I, personally have a much easier time with theory than the actual act of programming. On the weeks where we have a specific homework due, I will spend maybe 3-4 hours on it. For my other course it is different. The other CS course I have is a programming heavy course, and I spend about 3-4 hours a week outside of class working on it. On weeks where we have programming assignments, I spend about 10-20 hours per assignment. For my math course I spend about 1-2 hours per week. For my Latin course I spend 1-2 hours per week. I spend about 40 hours per week on campus because I commute. Outside of class, I spend around 2 hours a week on the special interest group(mathematical Programming) of the club which I am the head of(only 2 hours because we have around 6 members and each one shoulders the approximately the same time burden). For another one of my clubs, I spend around 2 hours(quiz bowl). For my third club I spend maybe 30 min(I'm not very active, Linux Users Group). And outside of that I spend probably 5-10 hours self learning/working on my own projects. The only reason my load for classes is so light is because I'm in my first semester, and I'm still in introductory courses. I also go to a school which inflates grades pretty heavily, which makes the load even lighter.

