How many hours do CS students spend studying? Do you guys have time to party? How many hours more do you study than the Buisiness majors and all the other easy majors?

Hours studying: It really depends on which classes you’re taking together during the semester. Id say on average my full time course load functions as a full-time job for me. Especially if I’m taking lab based classes that require a lot of time.

I'm a CS major. For 12 credits I'm spending 36 hours outside of lectures reading and completing assignments (give or take 4 hours).

It’s different for everyone IMO. You study until you understand what you’re doing. I think the saying is that you study 2-3 hours per credit hour? I could be wrong.

With a full course load and part time internship. No time to party.

I don’t spend much time studying, I definitely spend alot of time going out and socializing (as long as I don’t have any tough projects). Work hard play hard. Just focus during lecture and work hard on assignments for a few hours. The rest of your time will be free.

I also interned and did school at the same time for a few months... would NOT recommend it. Had no free time at all back then.

I don’t count the hours but I’ve definitely been able to balance school and social life. Nearly all my classes since last Spring semester have been programming courses. While still time consuming, the assignments usually don’t take me so long to complete. Maybe because I’m in CC and the material isn’t so challenging?? But even then, I still feel like I’ve been learning a lot. Even when I had a part-time job working 20 hrs/week, I was still able to socialize here and there.

Study mornings and nights monday to thursday and while at part time job on campus and after lunch until around 8 pm on friday, saturday, and sunday.

Pretty much studying all the time or looking at memes, usually I don't study on weekends though (work and girlfriend), before covid I'd go to a party on occasion (probably average once a month) but it definitely wasn't the "get shitfaced every friday saturday" a lot of university students do.

It really depends on the school. I'd say that from my second year to fourth year most of the CS students in my school weren't doing much else other than studying. You normally go from the time you wake up until you go to bed 7 times a week. Of course there are little distractions here and there that happen throughout the day, but it's pretty much studying all day. I normally took at least Friday night off and would get apocalyptic drunk to blow some steam from 9pm onwards.

It's heavily dependent on the school, what year you're in, and how much prior experience you have. The same intro to CS assignments that take super experienced developers an hour might take an unexperienced student 5-10 hours.